hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery here with
CHP episode 162 premiere Joelle I do zmt
this time last time we convened we
looked at Joe's earliest years growing
up in Hawaii on and shenyang later
moving the ten gene and then on to Japan
and France this 11-year period between
1913 when he started at nan Chi middle
school in Tianjin and when he returned
to China from Europe in 1924 we're
chillin lies formative years this is
when he first embraced Marxism and
committed himself to China's
transformation under this system of
government may 4th 1919 was a watershed
moment for Joe like it was for so many
the CCP didn't exist yet but thanks to
the events and blowback from May fourth
it soon would after returning from Japan
Joe threw himself into his work as a
student at the new nan Chi University in
10g you know how it is cream always
rises to the top
Joe acquired a reputation for getting
results and was good at whatever he did
communicating organizing and bringing
people together the summer of 1920 Joe
and I went to France riding high on his
reputation and achievements in Tianjin
Joe took a leadership position as a
point man in Europe the ultimate cadre
this was his training ground for what
followed whilst in France he formally
joined the CCP following the third party
Congress June 1923 30 or so delegates
representing a total CCP membership of
420 agreed to follow the dictates of the
Comintern and join hand in hand with the
KMT in a united front
Joe recognizing an opportunity perhaps
became a darling of the Nationalists so
appreciative of the good work he did for
them acting in the role of the perfect
liaison getting them established in
Europe this work led Joe to Sun yat-sen
that led to Chiang kai-shek and Jose
posting at the
hoaa military academy as a vice director
of the political training department
seizing on this once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity Joe used his time and his
position at the Whampoa Military Academy
to further the cause of the Communists
both politically and militarily Joe and
young at this time were closely
monitored by the agents of the Comintern
these agents called
all the shots at the academy it didn't
take long for the Nationalists to feel
like they were being dead is OV e 'it's
as far as allowing the Communists to
infiltrate the kmt like they were
recruiting people left and right as I
said in the last episode of the three
parties involved in this United Front
only the Soviets believe this
arrangement might work out when things
became a little too obvious and after
Sun yat-sen died in May 1925 John
kai-shek and his right-wing allies in
the KMT decided to force the issue and
that's where we ended at last episode
the John Sean gun vote or warship
incident of March 20th 1926 the
Gyeongsang Jim yen a mostly communist
manned gunboat sailed from Whampoa
towards Guangzhou John pointed at this
action and accused the Communists of
double-crossing and attempting to make a
power play against the KMT by setting
this warship to Guangzhou everyone knew
this day was coming but now that it had
come all the fractures and the United
Front started to become more evident so
let's pick up and see what happened
after that
all Joanne lies lessons learned and life
experiences faced as a youngster growing
up in Hawaiian Shenyang Tianjin Japan
Europe all of these events all those
contacts he made everything was gonna
come in handy now the Chinese Civil War
doesn't officially start until many
years later but right about here is
where the fuse got lit from now on Joe
and lye is gonna
learn to become a master of disguise and
an expert in passing secret messages and
evading the military police the next
order of business that john kai-shek had
to deal with was the northern expedition
to get rid of the warlord armies will
pay full swing Chuang Fung Duan cheer a
fungus Yong Chun tahleen all these guys
it was time to bring them down finally
Jon still had a use for the CCP he had a
great idea to reinstate the dismissed
left-wing and communist soldiers and
used them in the front lines against the
warlord armies after cutting the
Communists down a few notches and later
on kicking wonking way to Europe
John was now ready to step up his agenda
Wang Jingwei was one of Sun yat-sen's
inner circle and some felt the most
suitable successor to carry Suns mantle
Zhang kai-shek had other plans and
marginalizing Wang and sending him to
Europe was part of the grand scheme
removing one jean way from China was
John's way of taking him out of the game
in July 1926 the northern expedition was
launched Joe had been spending this time
moving around and for the first time
beginning to see the possible merits of
Mao Zedong's ideas regarding the role of
the peasantry their partnership had not
been formed yet but they certainly knew
of each other and had met once before in
Guangzhou Mao totally disagreed with the
Comintern policy and said in China's
unique case the revolution had to start
in the countryside with the peasants Joe
was now beginning to see the folly and
blindly following these Comintern agents
but as long as that was their only
source of funding they had to go along
Joe became wary of them early on you see
the Soviet way insisted that at all
costs power must remain in the center
having these rural mobile bases out in
the countryside like Mao was talking
about when against this Prince
once Joe got settled in Shanghai and of
1926 he was made secretary of the
organization department as well as a
member of the military commission two
armed uprisings organized by the CCP
happened in Shanghai in October 1926 in
February 1927 these were communist
attempts targeted at the Shanghai
establishment whose livelihoods were
protected by the warlord Shuang Shuang
Fung he was too big a fish to take down
but the third attempt at upsetting
warlord rule in Shanghai March 1927 was
effective enough to end in a decisive
victory for the Chinese Communist Party
forces chose role in these three
uprisings was not a leading one
nonetheless especially in the final one
that did the trick he was heavily
involved he operated out of the French
Concession I drew Lafayette today's
fushing Lu he agitated and organize
strikes mostly by forcing the Nanking
warlord son chuan Fang and his army out
of Shanghai that opened the door for the
national revolutionary army to march
right in the next day another CCP
luminary who worked with Joe at this
time was none other than Cong Chun we
looked at Kahn's life and CHP episode
number 11 the communist forces small as
they may have been did the job not the
nra John's troops waltzed in when the
job was already done if the Communists
thought that they were gonna get any
credit for what they achieved they were
in for a disappointment they let it be
known that it should be okay for them to
establish a Soviet government in
Shanghai is a base of control after what
they did showing they were no slouches
and that they knew how to mobilize the
workers - it was not outrageous by any
means to request this new kind of
political arrangement well 10 do show
Joe and I and other leaders of the
nascent communist movement we're hoping
for their own political representation
instead they got the Shanghai Massacre
Joe
had declared a provisional People's
Government in Shanghai just before Jiang
marched in this of course didn't go over
well especially after Jo refused John's
demands to dismantle his government
through the organizing genius of the
communist cadres over 800,000 workers
took to the streets and joined in on
that third uprising on March 21st 1927
any political group that can mobilize
that many people that fast could not be
taken lightly
similar strikes had also been organized
in Wuhan and Tianjin not only the
Communists but all these left-leaning
KMT elements radical students and
workers every last one of them needed to
be dealt with if John was gonna tame
Shanghai well we covered the Shanghai
Massacre and CHP episode 55 the
Communists were feeling a little bit too
cocky after they proved their mettle in
Shanghai they had sent the Warlord's
swim trunks on packing and now they made
an attempt to consolidate their gains Jo
and lye in all the CCP leadership from
China do showdown fail to see the strong
arm of John kai-shek about to come down
hard on them
it all started April 12th when one of
the top organizers in Shanghai Guangzhou
hua was invited to dinner at do us
Shawn's place he of course his big ears
do the top crime boss of Shanghai who
had a special relationship with John
kai-shek as soon as Wang Xiao hua
arrives at dues spacious residence he
strangled to death
Joe is also set up for a similar fate
but after he shows up for dinner at his
predetermined place of execution he's
arrested but let go the next day this
was thanks to John Shu Joe led junk I
shacks 26th army he argued that
murdering Joe and lie in this fashion
would have been counterproductive Joe
was by this time the top CCP operative
in Shanghai in
who high-profile a person to be taken
down so brazenly Joe barely got away
that time he had a lot of close calls
that followed but this was probably the
closest he ever came to a career-ending
incident the shanghai massacre was
carried out with deadly effectiveness
when Joe tried to organize a protest
against all the arrests of workers
taking place soldiers opened fire on
them killing and wounding hundreds the
manner in which the operation was
carried out left no doubt in anyone's
mind that this the United Front her
first United Front was over and Soviet
cooperation with the Guam in Dong you'd
forget about that too and with that the
Comintern lost a customer
Joe escaped to Wuhan and met with Wang
Jingwei and Chandu show but to no avail
ignoring the reality going on all around
them the Comintern was still dead set
against any open conflict against Jiang
in the meantime the Nationalist
government unleashed one heck of a reign
of terror against all suspected
communists and leftist Jon famously said
back then quote better to slay a
thousand innocent men than let one
communist escape end quote and the
Shanghai business community who had the
most to lose and upsetting the status
quo dutifully PO need up to pay their
share in the operating expenses they
were quite thrilled that Jiang's men had
cleaned up the city and put an end to
all these strikes and workers agitating
after Jung showed his hand Joe knew the
only way to deal with the situation was
gonna be armed conflict mouths felt the
same way and had been saying this for a
while they argued constantly with the
Comintern agents who kept insisting
they'd be cool don't let things degrade
conflict with the Nationalists
not yet anyway on April 28 1927 even one
of the most sacred cows Li Chiao the
co-founder of the CCP after taking
refuge in the Soviet embassy in Beijing
was brazenly attacked and Hey
and the orders of the warlord jongcheol
in Leo Chow was one of the more famous
victims of the shanghai massacre and the
white terror that followed over the next
12 months
about 300,000 communists suspected
leftists and who knows how many minnows
who got caught up in the net will meet
similar kinds of violent endings so no
more pussyfooting around with this
pretend united front
everyone knew where everyone stood now
the Comintern and the kmt dissolved
their partnership
the Communists however joe included had
not broken their ties to the Comintern
that tortured relationships still at a
few years to go before it too got to be
too much as far as the shanghai massacre
went it was most effective John
kai-shek's intelligence was top rate and
this alliance with do-hyung was a
masterstroke the communist movement took
a full punch to the face those who
survived all scattered the movement was
driven underground and everyone waited
for the party center to speak the
Central Committee held an emergency
meeting at this meeting Joe and I was
appointed secretary of the front
committee in charge of operations he was
given a red wool a task to go to nan
Chun and Jung Shi Province and organized
an uprising in defiance of this action
by Jung to add some brawn and muscle in
this planned nan Chung uprising Jo had
around 20,000 troops led by some
familiar names Judah who long the Lin Bo
and yet ting you can see how far back
all these guys go to make sure
everything went according to the script
probably written somewhere in Moscow
they also had a common turn agent
working in concert on July 25th Joe set
out for nine Chung arriving two days
later this was the next milestone in his
personal history Joe believed in order
for the movement to be taken seriously
and to prove the Communists were a
contender
determine China's future they had to
take and hold a major city nan Chun
qualified as a major city the future
marshal hood long was put in charge of
the military planning yes always the
Comintern had their hand and everything
the operation was a success and for a
moment the Communists controlled man
Chung but as soon as john kai-shek got
wind of what was going on troops were
called in and made fast work of the
gains made by her Long's army by August
4th they were shoot out of the city and
forced to set up a base elsewhere Joe
had already left nan Chang was on his
way to Guangdong he'd later after take
the rap for this failure in nan Chung
rather than stay and make an effort to
hang on to what they had Joe had moved
on to the next mission so benign Chung
uprising looked promising at first but
thanks to planning mistakes and Murphy's
Law and ended up turning into a small
disaster on August 7th 1927 an important
meeting was held that yielded some
changes at the top of the CCP someone
had to take the fall for that oversight
not seeing the Shanghai Massacre coming
and that turned out to be the top guy in
the party Chon do show he got the blame
and was forced to resign in his place
came Chicho by a political and literary
figure and colleague of Lucian and mal
doin haven't gotten to him yet on the
list of CHP topics mild saddam got a
dressing-down at this meeting and was
told to knock it off with his ultra
radical ideas out in the countryside he
was given the okay however to attempt a
peasant insurrection which will come to
be known later on as the ill-fated
autumn harvest uprising the social cheee
another thing to come out of this
meeting was the agreement that
henceforth the party should transform
itself to a strong secretive and
combative organization no more mr. nice
guy here at this August 7th meeting
Joe was appointed head of the
organizational Bureau of the Standing
Committee of the Politburo this put him
in charge of the organization propaganda
military affairs investigation The
Secret Service communications
publications and basically everything
that was important Joe what lies at the
top guy he never will be but he was
pretty important Joe and I was still
leading the fight from nan Chung to
Guangdong but getting beaten up like
crazy
this March from nanchang the guangdong
with Joe Niranjan Changi and yet ting
encountered a number of things along the
way that didn't go according to
expectations one thing was that they had
counted on much more local peasant
support along the way but those famous
fence sitters from Chinese history
didn't rise to the occasion they were
able to take Charl Xiang Shao Joan
shantou but Joe it was a mouse fighting
an elephant and the troops he led faced
heavy losses they were down to no more
than 800 men Joe contracted malaria near
Long John Shu Xiang's yin and Yan ting
personally arranged for Joe to be
transported to safety and treatment in
Hong Kong they sailed a small craft with
barely enough room to stand two days
later
communists met the vessel in Hong Kong
waters and Joe was treated with quinine
by November he recovered from another
near-death experience and headed back to
Shanghai ill-fated Guangzhou commune
December 1927 that the Comintern duped
the Communists into doing resulted in
more than 5,000 deaths yet ting yet yin
yang and Ashish yung Chen believing this
a suicide mission took the city but
could barely hold it for a few days
before they had to head for the hills
Yan ting had to take the blame but
everyone knew the Comintern was biting
off more than it
chu with a place like Guangzhou when it
came time to think of a place to flee to
safety it was decided to head in the
direction of mounted dong safe haven on
the Fujian jiangshi border at a place
called jigongshan
place mentioned in many episodes before
after the series of debacles and failed
uprisings following the shanghai
massacre and with the ranks slimmed down
to alarming levels the communists needed
to figure out what to do next
Jing Gong Shan is where Mao went after
the autumn harvest uprising fell flat
now everyone was either on the run or
laying low until things cooled down the
next time something important went down
was at the 6th ccp congress june 18th to
July 11th 1928 to ensure everyone's
security the meeting was held in Moscow
out of reach of junk Ishak secret police
Joe began heading up there in May 1928
with Tong Ying Chun and wearing a
disguise he served as general secretary
of the Congress there were 84 delegates
and 34 alternates mild sent this one out
he remained behind in Jing Gong Sun in
Moscow Joe spoke up loud and clear as
far as saying the fight needed to be
taken to the countryside where the
masses were whenever following the
orders of the Comintern the communist
troops ended up walking into a buzz saw
with all these urban insurrections they
got lectured by Stalin who was eager to
assert as much control as possible over
them the new general secretary of the
party was shang jung-hwa because of his
background and worker credentials he was
a darling of the Soviets in the
Comintern he headed back to China after
the Congress and began working on trying
to revive the party and carry out their
work he tried to assert himself at once
and began making various directives his
right-hand man was Lee Lee Sun Li and
Shang totally rejected what Jo and of
course Mao had called for giving up the
fight in the cities and taken it to the
countryside
Lee Lee Sun
wanted all of urban and section this
extreme talk was not what the Comintern
wanted to hear Shangdong foie and Lele
son were telling the Comintern to go to
hell and the Soviets saw everything
beginning to unravel before their eyes
Shang qionghua was a hothead and not
what you call someone who believed in
coming to a consensus Jo and lie was
ranked lower than Shang Chong ha but
Zhang being a worker was not cut out for
all the politics and day-to-day
nitty-gritty of operations so he sent
back and let Jo pretty much run things
this sort of made Jo the top guy in the
CCP his main task for now is to revive
the party in the areas where they had
been decimated expand the red bases and
build a red army Stalin and the
Comintern were still demanding their way
as far as putting the focus on the
cities rather than the countryside Jo
spent these years organizing
centralizing and unifying the party and
the manner in which the army was
structured he did this at a time when
the KMT had quite a price on his head
but nonetheless Jo through all his
energies and to rebuilding the party
after all this bad luck failed uprisings
and misfortune his rival inside the
party at this time was Lee Lee son who
was still intent on defying the
Comintern over the decision about how
aggressively to take the fight to the
KMT in the cities by the way during this
period Jo was able to keep in regular
contact with song Ching Ling Madame Sun
yat-sen whose house was watched all the
time by the secret police but Jo used
the services of New Zealand's own Rui
Ali as an intermediary to pass messages
back and forth one thing to come out of
this period was the establishment of the
Chong yang took the took cook for short
this was the ccp's secret police and
dirty tricks squad it also had a
division the red squad that Delton
murder assassination and intimidation Jo
was the one who said it
and was in charge in his management of
the to cook Joe and I was not such a
nice guy where the trigger needed to be
pulled joe pressed it without a second
thought
assisting Joe with the took over two men
one was Shang qionghua the top party guy
at this point as well as a very colorful
character named goose Wang Chung who was
a highly ranked party operative in a
Politburo alternate member he was also
well known amongst the criminal fringe
and was a member of or had relations
with the secret societies sometimes when
a hit needed to be carried out gu would
be called in to handle it personally the
early success of the Tukka especially in
infiltrating Jung secret police was
legendary not only this the entire KMT
political organization from the top down
was filled with spies and people on the
took up a role but the Communists are
gonna take another left hook to the jaw
in April 1931 when Koosh Wing Chun fell
into the hands of John's secret police
the story went that Lee Lee Sun ordered
a hit on John kai-shek and gu was called
in to do the job
Lele sans Eyre / John's and circle meant
and annihilation campaigns which had
already gotten underway called for GU to
take Johnny out some sharp KMT secret
service agent caught up with gu and
Hanako who was living there under a fake
name was appearing as a juggler in some
theatre he was recognized I'm in April
24th 1931 and halt to Nanjing someone as
savvy as Gershwin Chung
know he was screwed and that as soon as
he got strapped down in a torture
chamber he crack in no time at all so gu
decided to offer his full cooperation
the arresting officer was told by gu not
to send a cable to John's office about
his capture because it will get
intercepted by communist spies operating
right inside the Generalissimo
office this officer thought that was all
bluster and sent the message anyway and
sure enough one of Joann lies spies a
confidential secretary to the director
of the secret police
indeed intercepted the cable knew right
away what the score was and leaked the
details to people who got it two people
who got it to Joe in line then this
highly placed secretary knowing his days
were numbered for tipping off the
communists slipped away into the night
and disappeared
Joe barely had enough time to destroy
what needed to be destroyed and gotten
word out to whoever could be reached in
the limited amount of time left before
gu potentially leaked everything to
Jung's secret police Joe knew what was
coming
cou xuanzang had the keys to the kingdom
he knew everything all the secret codes
spies and Foreman's safe houses and
where everyone's secret hideout was as
soon as GU began singing everywhere
Wuhan Tianjin Shanghai all the major
nerve centers of the communist Network
people got rounded up and killed Joe got
to as many as possible but barely had
enough time to save his own skin by the
time it was over it was already being
heralded in KMT circles as their
greatest victory since the shanghai
massacre and white terror over 3,000
were arrested plenty of them got more
than arrested if you know what I mean in
june chang chong saw the top guy
ignoring precautionary measures in the
course of going to see his mistress one
last time got picked up and hustled away
to his doom but not before they
extracted everything of use from him he
had been given away by Goochland Cheung
soon afterwards Joe's spies had gotten a
hold of the transcripts of Shang Shung
father's interrogation young like gu
knew everything when he told them
everything gu xuanzang had no choice but
to throw his a lot in with the kmt john
let him live for a few years before he
had him killed
as for gu xuanzang's family Joe and lie
in his
capacity as head of a special work
committee of a central committee at goos
family wiped out in retribution and his
orders five assassins were sent out to
do the job some accounts say seventeen
family and extended family members were
killed some say as high as thirty
however many it was calling out a hit
like this is not the kind of thing we
would regularly associate with Joe and
lie with so much dissension at the top
the Soviets stepped in to demand a
reshuffle of the leadership they were
able to get rid of Lili son and their
new darling ended up being Wong made
leader of the so-called 28 Bolsheviks
Wong's number two was a man named Blanco
and when Wang Ming
Stalin's man went up to Moscow for
discussions
he left Baku in charge it was looking by
the end of 1931 as if Jung kai-shek had
a shot at stamping out the communist
between the Shanghai Massacre the goose
won-joong affair in the capture of Zhang
Zhang hua it was a massive body blow
that drove the movement even deeper
underground by the end of 1931 amidst
this internal struggle with a 28
Bolsheviks Jo put on his disguise and
headed towards the mountains of jiangshi
Jung had a hundred thousand silver
dollar reward for the capture of Jo and
lie with one of the more incompetent and
counterproductive Comintern agents
running things it was a difficult time
for Jo at a time when the KMT secret
police was proving deadly effective
party unity in 1930 31:32 was at a low
ebb and the fight was on to revive the
party and take control of it well one of
the direct results of this whole
betrayal of the ccp at the hands of
Goochland Jang as Zhang Zhang hua was
that the whole shanghai apparatus ended
up getting shut down and transported to
a town called raging home of Mao
Zedong's Chinese Soviet republic
set up in November 1931 this is where
the center of all things communists in
China would be until the time came for
the long march
Mao's army in January 1929 had been
successfully chased out of the cradle of
the Chinese Revolution Jing Gong Jean
Marie Jean was where they began to get
set up next another thing that came out
of the GU xuanzang affair was the rise
of Dai Li to the head of military
intelligence for Jung kai-shek after
Jang learned how infected his Intel
service was with communist spies he
needed a new organization built from the
ground up this is when Dai Lee enters
the picture
he's a future CHP topic China's Himmler
great Jean is located in southern
jiangshi on the Fujian border miles base
there served as a lone come in a
stronghold and covered about 19,000
square miles around three million people
lived in and around the area although ma
was the top guy in the Soviet located in
great Qin Jo and I out ranked him
overall being a leader in the central
party hierarchy in 1930 after he arrived
in raegene mile began cleaning up the
ranks of the party through a number of
vicious and violent purges this was the
first of many to follow in his lifetime
there had been obvious dissension in the
ranks and no one knew who was on whose
side or who was a spy for who the purges
carried out by Mao with his base were so
violent and so far-reaching they came in
for some heavy criticism later the
December 1932 January 1931 foo ten
incident was a direct result of these
purges a red army battalion rose up in
protest against the way Maoists handling
things Mao had to send pom Delhi and
Linda put down this mutiny Mao had been
the top guy in raegene but after the
arrival of the 28 Bolsheviks and those
comrades who had escaped from Shanghai
his authority there was being challenged
this didn't do much doubt the power
struggle going on
where did Joe and Lai stand on all this
he didn't try and stop the purges his
greatest fear was infiltration by
Jiang's KMT spies although Joe felt the
same way as far as rooting out the spies
and anti-bolshevik elements he disagreed
with the violence with which mial
carried out the purges plenty of
innocent people got caught up in this
but these were hard and uncertain times
for the Communists while these power
struggles were going on between the 28
Bolsheviks and those lined up against
them Jiang was merciless in his attempts
to shut down the base after Joe was
selected by the Politburo to investigate
the Fukien incident he concluded Mao was
right do what he did going after
perceived enemies of the party in such
an aggressive manner he cautioned about
the excesses and said the number of anti
Bolsheviks was exaggerated out of these
purges and struggles the Red Army got
shaved down to only a few thousand men
from what had once been forty thousand
by January 1932 a resolution was passed
that adopted all of Joe's findings and
once this was done purged simmered down
this raging period is where Joe starts
to gravitate towards Mao here is where
he recognizes for the first time Mao had
better ideas than the leaders married to
the Comintern they had met once before
in Guangzhou but had been separated
since the Shanghai Massacre Joe had been
driven underground and Shanghai and Mao
was out in the countryside around Jing
Gong Sun but enraging they came together
and from this point forward they would
remain together for the next four
decades by this time no one needed to
convince Joe and live at a strategy of
focusing on the countryside versus the
urban areas was the way to go mobile
guerrilla warfare was the only way to
stand up to gens powerful army going
head-to-head against Jang in the cities
had only produced one disastrous defeat
after another
this urban strategy Mayo worked well in
Russia but it was wholly unsuitable
chyna this issue continued to be debated
internally as the top leaders jockey for
a position each pushing their own agenda
about what to do might be calling for
this strategy since his 1927 agrarian
movement in hunan he was the lone
dissenter back then saying stop focusing
on the cities start with the peasants
and then work your way up all these
years Mao had been considered sort of a
troublemaker and a nutcase by the
Soviets but now in reaching after all
these defeats more and more his strategy
made sense Joe thought so he came under
a considerable amount of heat when he
refused to attack my the Soviet led 28
Bolsheviks came down hard on Joe for his
support of Mao in fact when the
watershed Ning do conference was held
and it came time to decide what to do
with the first field army it was Joe who
has made the political commissar not
mouth Ning do was only about 90 minutes
by car north of raging there in October
1932 the name do conference took place
Mao got his way and that his mobile
guerrilla tactics were adopted but to
put him in his place
the leadership led by beaucoup relegated
him to second fiddle everyone dumped on
Mao at the Ning to conference but when
it came time for Joe to speak his
criticism of Mao was watered down and he
fought from all for his refusal to
attack Mao
Joe had to take some heat Baku called
Joe a compromiser we'll see later on
all those who lined up against mall at
Ning 2 will in time get theirs after
mile rises to the top spot all this time
Wan Ming the titular head of the CCP was
up at Moscow trying to run things in
China by remote control communications
in the 1930s was hardly what it is today
so it was hard enough to keep in contact
using normal channels to exacerbate
matters Jang had been most successful in
disrupting communication it was
nearly impossible to speak as one young
had been launching one after another
these annihilation campaigns the only
problem with these campaigns is that
they didn't an ayah late anyone John
thought he finally dislodged the
Communists when he began the forth
annihilation campaign four hundred
thousand men set out July 1932 to squash
these communists after a year of
fighting John had to chalk up his fourth
defeat as his fourth campaign wound down
yet another common turn agent came
calling to mozz
jungchi's so via this time Baku came arm
and arm with Otto Braun a German with a
lot of energy and ideas but little
understanding of China Brown was known
as Leda he was gonna show these Chinese
Communist how to do things right when
Jung decided to once and for all
rid southern zhongshi of these
communists it was up to brown and Baku
to come up with a defensive plan this v
annihilation campaign is going to be the
one that does the trick this time Jung
employed a new strategy that worked when
this fifth attempt got underway in early
September 1933 Jung's German advisors
Alexander von halkan housen and Hans von
Seeckt had a plan they adopted what was
called a blockhouse strategy this
involved building these structures these
block houses that sealed off any escape
routes at the same time Jung's forces of
about a million man slowly and circled
the GMC Soviet area of the million men
participating in his operation the
lion's share came from various local
warlord armies for their own selfish
reasons these warlords weren't so
enthused about supporting Jang but they
remain part of the campaign in a word
the strategy was effective it worked
well and for the rest of 1933 the Red
Army suffered one defeat after another
they're as the noose kept getting
tighter and tighter around their base
ball goes 28 Bolsheviks fashion was not
looking good four times before Mao had
been able to Stinney Jiang's offensive
with this campaign to end all campaigns
ball COO and brown are getting clobbered
they were continuing to take orders from
Wang being via telegram in Moscow
Manny's strategies proposed by Joe or
shouted down
well this fifth one worked after four
failures John was determined to prevail
this time he threw everything he had
against the communists in southern Jiang
Shi and that turned out to be all he
needed to do when the nationalist forces
attacked Guam Chung the town just north
of and considered the Gateway to raging
it was time to evacuate at this dark
hour all eyes turned to Cho John was
pounding them and this new Black House
strategy was unbeatable and to vacate
the premises so they might live to fight
another day they asked Joe and I to come
up with a plan this plan became the long
march ultimately but the most pressing
issue was how to get out of Ray Jean
alive Joe worked on this plan in
conjunction with Baku and brown Joe was
given the portfolio of figuring out the
actual logistics of the withdrawal the
planning was done in the utmost secrecy
and was not revealed until the moment
had come to evacuate Joe and I never
like to leave anything to chance
the evacuation called for a rump
attachment to remain behind to slow down
the advance sufficient enough to allow
the main force of 84,000 or so to
evacuate safely among those selected to
remain behind were the sick and wounded
and anyone deemed not fit enough to
survive what most likely lay ahead
bravely leading the sixteen thousand
strong rare guard would be Xiang yang
chuggy pan John lien and Chucho by
84,000 you can fill Stamford Bridge two
times over
October 1934 in order to avoid getting
chopped down by Jang they had to sneak
through the mountains sight unseen a ten
kilometer long procession per Joe's plan
they headed in the direction of her
lungs army I'm the whole nautical bei
border region that was the easy part the
hard part involved breaking through all
these block houses that have been
hastily built like a row of guard towers
there were four blockade lines they had
to break through in order to be home
free
three were not terribly hard the fourth
one was the tough one in order to get
around this dilemma Joe reached out to
the local warlord in the area chunji
Tong and asked permission for their army
to pass through chunji Tong you might
recall from those Morris two-gun Cohen
episodes
moysha work for chunji Tong for a stint
a Chun was no great fan of John kai-shek
and therefore granted permission to
Joe's emissaries thanks to this bit of
diplomacy the Red Army had a safer route
to evacuate October 10th
1934 it had been exactly 23 years to the
day since the Shanghai revolution took
place
who knew back then that it would have
come down to this Joe and ly though he
didn't know it at the time of course
started heading in the direction of yen
on he carried two blankets one sheet a
sweatshirt and some wrapped up cloth
bunch up at night to use as a pillow who
went where when which direction all the
codes the entire plan was all Joe's if
things went well he looked like a hero
unfortunately as we all remember from
previous episodes things did not go so
well and Joe will have to take his lumps
for that later on
thunking chow let the same time as Joe
if you can imagine she had to make that
daring escape sick to death with TB her
mother who was with her and Ray Jean was
too sick to go on the March when the
nationalist army rolled in and started
killing everyone someone found out this
was Joanne lies mother-in-law they were
delighted
she got thrown into prison Chucho by
didn't escape they captured him he was
executed and as I said the evacuation
didn't go as planned
by the time they reached the mighty
Shang River Zhang's troops had finally
caught up with them it was a bloodbath
of the 84 or so thousand troops in no
time at all that number had been reduced
to 30,000 and not just from battle after
seeing how futile the situation was
there were mass desertions as soon as
everything degraded - every man for
himself
a lot of soldiers disappeared into the
mountains and wait until the coast was
clear and then maybe they just found
their way back to their village as
things went from bad to worse Brown who
had been calling the shots militarily
started to lose his you-know-what as his
strategies led to one disastrous defeat
after another he began to take a step
back and allow Joe to step forward and
take a lead role this is where Joe
starts to work closer and closer with
MAO at this desperate hour mouse stepped
forward and said this is what we got to
do Joe agreed if they kept marching in
the direction of her long space John
would intercept them in West Hunan and
they'd be finished Mao had been the one
to say head to guacho it was far enough
away they could catch a breather their
ball cool and brown of course were dead
set against it but Joe gave Mau his
support in the city of leaping in cuejoe
were the province abuts Hunan and guanxi
amidst this open split regarding what to
do next
they held another meeting to discuss
strategy Mao was forceful in his
insistence to head deeper into guacho he
said the nationalist troops there were
two gun soldiers carrying a gun in one
hand and an opium pipe in the other
this was also Miao country where the
Miao minority people lived at this
meeting called by Joe and leaping of the
Central Committee and the m.a.c the
Military Affairs Committee he was
decided to follow Mao's plan
Mao was merciless and now he wailed on
Baku and auto Brown he held Bab
primarily responsible for the lousy
position they were in much to the
chagrin of Stalin and the Comintern of
28 Bolsheviks with Wang Ming in Moscow
and Baku in the trenches of cuejoe were
being challenged for the leadership of
the party Mao said to start marching
north west in the direction of soon-yi
and it's enjoy ye where we will pick up
next week we could see in 1933 1934 Joe
began to recognize Mao is the best
leader for the party when everyone was
dismissing Mao is crazy
and too radical Joe saw the wisdom and
what he was calling for and when it came
time to decide like right now Joanne lie
through his lot in with mild Saddam that
made it much easier for Mao to do what
he did next at the landmark to a knee
conference all for next time
this is Laszlo Montgomery's signing off
from a relatively warm and sunny Los
Angeles California more Joanne lie next
time I guarantee it consider joining me
then for perhaps another exciting
episode of the China history podcast